## Case Study Questions - Data Exploration and Cleaning


1. Update the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` table by modifying the month_year column to be a date data type with the start of the month.

2. What is count of records in the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` for each `month_year` value sorted in chronological order (earliest to latest) with the null values appearing first?

3. What do you think we should do with these null values in the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics`?

4. How many `interest_id` values exist in the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` table but not in the `fresh_segments.interest_map` table? What about the other way around?

5. Summarise the id values in the `fresh_segments.interest_map` by its total record count in this table

6. What sort of table join should we perform for our analysis and why? Check your logic by checking the rows where interest_id = 21246 in your joined output and include all columns from `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` and all columns from `fresh_segments.interest_map` except from the id column.

7. Are there any records in your joined table where the month_year value is before the created_at value from the `fresh_segments.interest_map` table? Do you think these values are valid and why?



<br>

---

## Solutions:

Let's collaborate on running the queries using PostgreSQL on [DB Fiddle]().

---

### 1. Update the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` table by modifying the month_year column to be a date data type with the start of the month.

```sql
ALTER TABLE fresh_segments.interest_metrics
ALTER COLUMN month_year TYPE DATE
USING TO_DATE(
  CASE
    WHEN month_year LIKE '%LL%' THEN NULL
    ELSE REPLACE(month_year, 'NU', '01')
  END,
  'MM-YYYY'
);
```


---

### 2. What is count of records in the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` for each `month_year` value sorted in chronological order (earliest to latest) with the null values appearing first?


```sql
SELECT   month_year, COUNT(*) AS record_count
FROM     fresh_segments.interest_metrics
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY 1 NULLS FIRST;
```

#### Result set:

month_year |	record_count |
--|--|
01-2019 |	973 |
02-2019 |	1121 |
03-2019 |	1136 |
04-2019 |	1099 |
05-2019 |	857 |
06-2019 |	824 |
07-2018 |	729 |
07-2019 |	864 |
08-2018 |	767 |
08-2019 |	1149 |
09-2018 |	780 |
10-2018 |	857 |
11-2018 |	928 |
12-2018 |	995 |
NULL |	1194 |


---

### 3. What do you think we should do with these null values in the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics`?


The null values in the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` table could be problematic for analysis, as they represent missing data. 

Depending on the context and the importance of the data, we could consider the following options:


- Impute the missing values using appropriate techniques (e.g., mean/median imputation, interpolation, or machine learning-based imputation) if the missing data is not random and can be estimated reliably.

- Remove the rows with null values if they are not critical to the analysis and the remaining data is still representative.

- Flag the rows with null values and treat them differently in the analysis, depending on the business requirements.


---

### 4. How many `interest_id` values exist in the `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` table but not in the `fresh_segments.interest_map` table? What about the other way around?


```sql

```

#### Result set:

---

### 5. Summarise the id values in the `fresh_segments.interest_map` by its total record count in this table


```sql

```

#### Result set:

---

### 6. What sort of table join should we perform for our analysis and why? Check your logic by checking the rows where interest_id = 21246 in your joined output and include all columns from `fresh_segments.interest_metrics` and all columns from `fresh_segments.interest_map` except from the id column.


```sql

```

#### Result set:

---

### 7. Are there any records in your joined table where the month_year value is before the created_at value from the `fresh_segments.interest_map` table? Do you think these values are valid and why?

```sql

```

#### Result set:

---
