## Case Study Questions - Index Analysis


1. What is the top 10 interests by the average composition for each month?

2. For all of these top 10 interests - which interest appears the most often?

3. What is the average of the average composition for the top 10 interests for each month?

4. What is the 3 month rolling average of the max average composition value from September 2018 to August 2019 and include the previous top ranking interests in the same output shown below.

5. Provide a possible reason why the max average composition might change from month to month? Could it signal something is not quite right with the overall business model for Fresh Segments?

<br>

---

## Solutions:

Let's collaborate on running the queries using PostgreSQL on [DB Fiddle]().

---

### 1. What is the top 10 interests by the average composition for each month?


```sql

```

#### Result set:

---

### 2. For all of these top 10 interests - which interest appears the most often?


```sql

```

#### Result set:

---

### 3. What is the average of the average composition for the top 10 interests for each month?


```sql

```

#### Result set:

---

### 4. What is the 3 month rolling average of the max average composition value from September 2018 to August 2019 and include the previous top ranking interests in the same output shown below.

month_year |	interest_name |	max_index_composition |	3_month_moving_avg |	1_month_ago |	2_months_ago |
|--|--|--|--|--|--|
2018-09-01 |	Work Comes First Travelers |	8.26 |	7.61 |	Las Vegas Trip Planners: 7.21 |	Las Vegas Trip Planners: 7.36 |
2018-10-01 |	Work Comes First Travelers |	9.14 |	8.20 |	Work Comes First Travelers: 8.26 |	Las Vegas Trip Planners: 7.21 |
2018-11-01 |	Work Comes First Travelers |	8.28 |	8.56 |	Work Comes First Travelers: 9.14 |	Work Comes First Travelers: 8.26 |


```sql

```

#### Result set:

---

### 5. Provide a possible reason why the max average composition might change from month to month? Could it signal something is not quite right with the overall business model for Fresh Segments?

```sql

```

#### Result set:

---
